---
layout: post
title:  "Design Approach"
---
I wanted to design the DWC webpage based on the design principles found in 1990s era operating systems like Microsoft’s Windows 95 and 98. The aim is for our site to evoke a time where the limited screen resolutions and colors were readily apparent. Not only that, but Microsoft was beginning to set themselves aside as the more corporate friendly brand compared to Apple’s academic, artist and musician friendly platform.

#### Background

One of my first IT jobs was installing Windows 98 from a CD-ROM at a family member’s workplace, which happened to be a law office. I think this was technically illegal (dear lawyers, never change), but back then I imagine many were either ignorant of things such as “licensing,” or they simply didn’t care. As a teenager fresh out of high school, I was cheaper than hiring a consultant. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eKYj6E-L01g 
The Launch of Windows 98 was absolutely 🔥

 don’t even think they ever paid me for the job, which was to simply install windows 98 on several computers with one CD-Key. This was before Volume Licensing and online activations. They simply trusted that you couldn’t get a key. (You could get a key). The stodgy corpos in the “business community” had adopted computers in the workplace early on, conjuring visions of 1980s films filled with confused men working in cubicles typing on big chunky keyboards, staring at amber monochrome CRTs. 
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LRlmkXsoGx0?start=1" title=“Amber Monochrome” frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; modest-branding; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>But by this time we were far past that reality, light years ahead in comparison to the Amiga, the Commodore, or the Atari ST.