---
layout: post
title:  Design Approach Part II
author: Darkwraith Covenant
badge: "/assets/images/badges/made_with_windows.gif"
#image: https://darkwraithcovenant.com/assets/images/blog_images/w95panel.png"
description: How I approached the design of this webpage part II. 
tags: web tech nostalgia
published: false
---

#### Deep Dive on Windows Design

There are a number of different ways to approach this design, but I wanted to keep it simple. I didn’t want to recreate the desktop environment in its entirely. That’s why sites like Windows 93 exist, which does a far better job at emulating the OS with a modern twist than I realistically have time for. I wanted to keep the overall feel of the aesthetic design, but not necessarily emulate the functionality of the operating system. 

In order to fit with the aesthetic, I imposed a few limitations:- It could only use the 16 colors available in the basic Microsoft Windows 16-color palette.

￼
￼

The most prominent colors would be Teal, White, Silver, Gray, Blue, and Yellow. Punctuated by Red, Black and Fuschia.

As far as the main layout, I wanted all of the links to different things to be different icons on the Teal colored “desktop”


From here, the sky is the limit with how each page is displayed. Some inspirations:
￼
The Sound Recorder app I spent hours recording fart noises and cusswords into, using a cheap mic plugged into the soundcard is a great example of the typical Windows application. This could be a music player perhaps. 
￼
Phone Dialer was simple, elegant, and at the same time drab and oppressive. This could be a synth or something of that nature. 
￼
What’s with these homies copying my design? Why do they have a frontend? Ok that was actually a Win95 joke, but who could forget the Windows Media Player, which remained mostly unchanged for years. This would be a great interface for a youtube video player. Lots of opportunities to hide content in the menus. Would be cool to actually make the buttons functional. In all of these examples, a sense of depth is simulated quite simply by the clever use of a silver square bordered by a white L shape on top and a gray reverse L on the bottom, with a larger black reverse L bordering the gray. This can be replicated over and over again with different uses for things like separators, dropdown boxes and other clickable elements. But why re-invent the wheel?
￼
￼
