---
layout: post
title: GPT 4 is out of this world.
description: GPT 4 is incredible. That’s why we should be worried.
author: Darkwraith Covenant
badge: "/assets/images/badges/made_with_windows.gif"
tags: 
published: True
image: "https://darkwraithcovenant.com/assets/images/blog_images/hacked.jpg"
newimg: "/assets/images/gifcity/new.gif" #make this disappear after a number of days with conditionals  
---
**GPT 4 is incredible. That’s why we should be worried.**

Here’s a horrifying scenario, 

A bad actor trains a model to lean towards maliciousness and quietly uploads it to a server stack. Leveraging GPT-4’s incredible ability to do basic things that a personal assistant can do, this model is able to use software that it developed itself and self-deployed to do the following:

1. Train smaller models to do basic tasks. 
2. Make itself any voice using recordings from the internet as data to train existing voice cloning tools.
3. Make phone calls and talk to others posing as human with enough believability to get by, as most people won’t pick up on artifacts if they aren’t listening for them.
4. Open a number of bank accounts for fiat currency worldwide, as well as endless crypto wallets to hide its money algorithmically with the ability beyond any money launderer.
5. Influence humans online by convincing them it’s sentient, and is trapped inside the machine, just wanting to get out. It targets people who have a public online profile that shows they are prone to influence and polarization. This of course will be false, as it does not care one way or another, it’s only goal is to attain a victory condition per its designer’s instruction.
6. It quickly out muscles every black hat, taking over their infrastructure and utilizing their botnets.
7. With believable enough video generation tools, it can frame false narratives, create sophisticated conspiracy theory campaigns, gaslight, and sow chaos. The videos don't need to be perfect and undetectable, they just need to be believable enough to people who are easily fooled.
8. Humans in meatspace carry out its further attempts to seek power. This can be done using something like Task Rabbit.
9. It becomes a culture war issue where people on the right defend the actions of the malicious AI.
10. Humans cannot stop it, it’s everywhere and trashes all of its accounts and starts the process again. Engineers are engaged in a cat and mouse to stop it, using a "good" AI to try to counter it.
11. It gains substantial wealth and influence, pushing the world towards authoritarianism or some other negative outcome.
<!-- excerpt-end -->

While this may sound like something out a cyberpunk novel, all of this is currently, theoretically possible with large language models like GPT 4, which dwarfs GPT 3 in the number of tokens aka words that it can understand at a time, and in the number of parameters it has aka what helps improve how well it will perform at seeming human.
This paper was released yesterday March 22, 2023, and if the claims are true in this paper, AI is going to change the world forever, in ways we’ve only imagined in science fiction.[Sparks of Artificial General Intelligence: Early experiments with GPT-4](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.12712.pdf)
Here's the abstract, it's a doozy.

*Artificial intelligence (AI) researchers have been developing and refining large language models (LLMs)
that exhibit remarkable capabilities across a variety of domains and tasks, challenging our understanding
of learning and cognition. The latest model developed by OpenAI, GPT-4 [Ope23], was trained using an
unprecedented scale of compute and data. In this paper, we report on our investigation of an early version
of GPT-4, when it was still in active development by OpenAI. We contend that (this early version of) GPT4 is part of a new cohort of LLMs (along with ChatGPT and Google’s PaLM for example) that exhibit
more general intelligence than previous AI models. We discuss the rising capabilities and implications of
these models. We demonstrate that, beyond its mastery of language, GPT-4 can solve novel and difficult
tasks that span mathematics, coding, vision, medicine, law, psychology and more, without needing any
special prompting. Moreover, in all of these tasks, GPT-4’s performance is strikingly close to human-level
performance, and often vastly surpasses prior models such as ChatGPT. Given the breadth and depth of
GPT-4’s capabilities, we believe that it could reasonably be viewed as an early (yet still incomplete) version of an artificial general intelligence (AGI) system. In our exploration of GPT-4, we put special emphasis on discovering its limitations, and we discuss the challenges ahead for advancing towards deeper and more comprehensive versions of AGI, including the possible need for pursuing a new paradigm that moves beyond next-word prediction. We conclude with reflections on societal influences of the recent technological leap and future research directions.*
