---
layout: post
title: AI Generated Music is a solution in search of a problem.
description: Why AI generated music won't replace musicians or composers.
author: Darkwraith Covenant
badge: "/assets/images/badges/made_with_windows.gif"
tags: AI music tech programming
published: False
image: "https://darkwraithcovenant.com/assets/images/blog_images/aimusic.jpg"
newimg: "/assets/images/gifcity/new.gif" #make this disappear after a number of days with conditionals  
---

**Introduction**

When I was studying music synthesis and music technology at Berklee, one of the 

**Tools for stochatically generating new musical ideas already exist.**

As far as using it as a means to create new parts or to add chance to music, those tools already exist. Even machine learning-based tools exist to generate new musical ideas. The Mutable Instruments Grids does this with drum patterns, generating a kick, snare, and hat pattern based on popular rhythms. These kinds of things have existed for a while now, so that's not new. Neither is creating music algorithmically, that is actually very old, dating before computers even -- see Aleatoric music. Euclidean sequencers already can create patterns based on geometric equations.
There already exist tools where you can basically generate an entire piece of music, or most of it using a computer. This is not new.
What's new is that now you can simply type "Indian raga meets death metal meets ska with loud 70s drums, punctuated by Darude Sandstorm synths" or something and hope that it does the following: Come up with something listenable and not be total garbage and come up with something new and interesting that hasn't been done a million times.

**Algorithmically generated music is nothing new.**

When I was studying music synthesis at Berklee, I became fascinated with the concept of algorithmic, chance-based music. [Aleatoric music](https://www.masterclass.com/articles/aleatoric-music-explained) is actually quite old, dating back as far as the Renaissance era in Europe, later popularized by 20th century composers like John Cage, who I was heavily into at the time. I was experimenting with using MaxMSP to create free jazz inspired synthetic music with random number generators and midi note quantizers.  

**Tools for stochatically generating new musical ideas already exist.**

<figure><audio controls="" controlslist="nodownload" class="px-1"> <source src="https://google-research.github.io/seanet/musiclm/examples/audio_samples/rich-descriptions/epic/audio.wav" type="audio/wav">Your browser does not support the audio element.</audio>
<figcaption>Prompt: Epic soundtrack using orchestral instruments. The piece builds tension, creates a sense of urgency. An a cappella chorus sing in unison, it creates a sense of power and strength.</figcaption></figure>

There is a fundamental problem with AI that generates entire pieces of music for you, in that there is still not a great chance that it will generate something that's objectively (insofar as we can be objective, as this will vary depending on the listener) "good" and even less of a chance that it will generate something "amazing." There's simply too much entropy in the universe.
Just like you don't always roll snake eyes when you roll the dice, so too will you not "roll" a kickass song each time. Even google's state of the art music generation model produces neat, but mediocre, and soulless music at best.
Even if you really fine tuned it, it's still only as good as its inputs. And there's still tons of genuine human output to generate, the world over, and a lot of it is going to be something the machine learning model never learned. This problem won't be solved until we are near or close to AGI.
Humans will still need to guide these outputs to make something that's good and not complete boring garbage. Just look at all the "AI art" that has been generated, it's cool but it's all just so throwaway. Very little of it can actually be used for serious pieces. It's great for things like demos, or concept art, or for visualizing an idea, and commercial artists are going to be in big trouble, but what makes music and art good is those subtle human touches that AI still can't replicate. 

<!-- excerpt-end -->

humans WANT human to human interaction. That's what so far sets us apart from machines. Until we get full cyborgs, this is going to be a problem. This is why people still go see live music, even though they can simply just listen to a band on a recording. There is that human connection that human beings are hardwired to crave.
Put an audience in front of an automaton that can sing and dance vs a human being that can do that and the people will choose the human each time, with few exceptions. Hominid evolution over a million years wired us to be social animals, that's not going away any time soon. Even a holographic band like Gorillaz is the exception rather than the rule.
